Update Model Card for ModernBERT (#37052)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/modernbert.md

-->

> <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">

Reviewer: Wrap this entire `div` with:

```
<div style="float: right;">

</div>
```

Author: Updated as discussed.

<img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
<img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
<img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
</div>

# ModernBERT

> [ModernBERT](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13663) is an improved succesor model built on the traditional encoder architecture. It builds on BERT and implements many modern architectural improvements which have been developed since its original release, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ModernBERT](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13663) is a modernized version of [`BERT`] trained on 2T tokens. It brings many improvements to the original architecture such as rotary positional embeddings to support sequences of up to 8192 tokens, unpadding to avoid wasting compute on padding tokens, GeGLU layers, and alternating attention.

You can find all the original ModernBERT checkpoints under the [ModernBERT](https://huggingface.co/collections/answerdotai/modernbert-67627ad707a4acbf33c41deb) collection.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the ModernBERT models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply ModernBERT to different language tasks.
```

Author: Updated as discussed.

-->

<div style="float: right;">
  <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
    <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
    <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
  </div>
</div>

# ModernBERT

[ModernBERT](https://huggingface.co/papers/2412.13663) is a modernized version of [`BERT`] trained on 2T tokens. It brings many improvements to the original architecture such as rotary positional embeddings to support sequences of up to 8192 tokens, unpadding to avoid wasting compute on padding tokens, GeGLU layers, and alternating attention.

You can find all the original ModernBERT checkpoints under the [ModernBERT](https://huggingface.co/collections/answerdotai/modernbert-67627ad707a4acbf33c41deb) collection.

> [!TIP]

> > Click on the ModernBERT models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply ModernBERT to different language tasks.

Reviewer: You can remove all the other list items in this ` [!TIP]` block

    device=0
)
pipeline("Plants create [MASK] through a process known as photosynthesis.")
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "answerdotai/ModernBERT-base",
)
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained(
    "answerdotai/ModernBERT-base",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa"
)
inputs = tokenizer("Plants create [MASK] through a process known as photosynthesis.", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
    predictions = outputs.logits

masked_index = torch.where(inputs['input_ids'] == tokenizer.mask_token_id)[1]
predicted_token_id = predictions[0, masked_index].argmax(dim=-1)
predicted_token = tokenizer.decode(predicted_token_id)

print(f"The predicted token is: {predicted_token}")
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="transformers-cli">

```bash
echo -e "Plants create [MASK] through a process known as photosynthesis." | transformers-cli run --task fill-mask --model answerdotai/ModernBERT-base --device 0
```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

> ## Resources

Reviewer: You can remove the Resources section

Author: Updated as discussed.

- A model designed following recent [The Case for Co-Designing Model Architectures with Hardware](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14489), ensuring maximum efficiency across inference GPUs.
- Modern training data scales (2 trillion tokens) and mixtures (including code ande math data)

> The original code can be found [here](https://github.com/answerdotai/modernbert).

Reviewer: Can remove this as well
